Stanage: add docs for dev tooling (#1659)
rcgsheffield/sheffield_hpc: stanagepilot/software/parallel/impi.rst

.. _impi_stanage:

Intel MPI
=========

.. sidebar:: Intel MPI

   :URL: https://software.intel.com/en-us/mpi-library

"Intel MPI Library is a multifabric message-passing library
that implements the open-source MPICH specification.
Use the library to create, maintain, and test advanced, complex applications that
perform better on HPC clusters based on Intel® processors."

Versions
--------

You can load a specific version using one of the following: ::
    
    module load impi/2018.4.274-iccifort-2019.1.144-GCC-8.2.0-2.31.1 # subset of intel 2019a EasyBuild toolchain

>     module load impi/2018.5.288-iccifort-2019.5.281     # subset of the intel 2019b toolchain

Reviewer: intel-2019a and intel-2019b's IMPI perform badly when invoked with srun (but not with mpirun).

Reviewer: Need to document

Reviewer 2: I'm leaning more in favour of installing only intel-2020a and onward for this given the peculiarities of the Intel MPI 2018 packages that are within intel-2019x.

Author: Reverse dependencies: 
```
impi/2018.4.274-iccifort-2019.1.144-GCC-8.2.0-2.31.1
 intel/2019a
 iimpi/2019a
 imkl/2019.1.144-iimpi-2019a
 intel/2019a
impi/2018.5.288-iccifort-2019.5.281
 intel/2019b
 iimpi/2019b
 HDF5/1.10.5-iimpi-2019b
 imkl/2019.5.281-iimpi-2019b
 intel/2019b

Reviewer: @desmfryan What are the implications for Abaqus users?

Reviewer 2: None iirc - ABAQUS doesn't have any external dependency on Intel MPI? Though any user defined functions would require a matched intel compiler.

    module load impi/2019.7.217-iccifort-2020.1.217     # subset of the intel 2020a toolchain
    module load impi/2019.9.304-iccifort-2020.4.304     # subset of the intel 2020b toolchain
    module load impi/2021.2.0-intel-compilers-2021.2.0  # subset of the intel 2021a toolchain
    module load impi/2021.4.0-intel-compilers-2021.4.0  # subset of the intel 2021b toolchain
    module load impi/2021.6.0-intel-compilers-2022.1.0  # subset of the intel 2022a toolchain
    module load impi/2021.7.1-intel-compilers-2022.2.1  # subset of the intel 2022b toolchain

which implicitly load versions of icc, ifort (and GCC).

Examples
--------

Two examples are given below, the first assessing the MPI performance and the second demonstrating the use 
of the Intel MPI compilers.

Example: MPI Performance testing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A simple test of these modules can be performed by running the built in performance benchmark tests 

> supplied by Intel. An example of this using 2 cores on one node is given below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supplied by Intel. An example of this using two single-core tasks on one node is given below: 
```

    echo "SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK=${SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK-1}"

    echo -e "\nBegin running application:\n"
    srun --export=ALL IMB-MPI1

This will generate output of the form:

.. code-block:: bash

    Show node core allocation:

    SLURM_JOB_NODELIST=node050
    SLURM_NNODES=1
    SLURM_NTASKS_PER_NODE=2
    SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK=1

    Begin running application:

    #----------------------------------------------------------------
    #    Intel(R) MPI Benchmarks 2021.4, MPI-1 part
    #----------------------------------------------------------------
    # Date                  : Thu Mar 16 16:00:38 2023
    # Machine               : x86_64
    # System                : Linux
    # Release               : 3.10.0-1160.59.1.el7.x86_64
    # Version               : #1 SMP Wed Feb 23 16:47:03 UTC 2022
    # MPI Version           : 3.1
    # MPI Thread Environment:

This is followed by a series of test benchmark results for each of the many tests.

Example: Using the Intel MPI compilers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Another simple test of these modules can be performed by compiling and running the example executable 

> provided by Intel. An example of this using 2 cores is given below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provided by Intel. An example of this using two single-core tasks on one node is given below:
```

"Intel MPI Library is a multifabric message-passing library
that implements the open-source MPICH specification.
Use the library to create, maintain, and test advanced, complex applications that
perform better on HPC clusters based on Intel® processors."

Versions
--------

You can load a specific version using one of the following: ::
    
    module load impi/2018.4.274-iccifort-2019.1.144-GCC-8.2.0-2.31.1 # subset of intel 2019a EasyBuild toolchain
    module load impi/2018.5.288-iccifort-2019.5.281     # subset of the intel 2019b toolchain
    module load impi/2019.7.217-iccifort-2020.1.217     # subset of the intel 2020a toolchain
    module load impi/2019.9.304-iccifort-2020.4.304     # subset of the intel 2020b toolchain
    module load impi/2021.2.0-intel-compilers-2021.2.0  # subset of the intel 2021a toolchain
    module load impi/2021.4.0-intel-compilers-2021.4.0  # subset of the intel 2021b toolchain
    module load impi/2021.6.0-intel-compilers-2022.1.0  # subset of the intel 2022a toolchain
    module load impi/2021.7.1-intel-compilers-2022.2.1  # subset of the intel 2022b toolchain

which implicitly load versions of icc, ifort (and GCC).

.. warning::

>    The Stanage cluster does not have a high performance interconnect between nodes. As 

Reviewer: No, needs removing

   a result cross-node MPI performance will be sharply limited in comparison to ShARC.

   In addition, cross-node MPI is not normally permitted as these kinds of workloads 
   should be run on the ShARC cluster for the reason above.

Examples
--------

Two examples are given below, the first assessing the MPI performance and the second demonstrating the use 
of the Intel MPI compilers.

Example: MPI Performance testing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A simple test of these modules can be performed by running the built in performance benchmark tests 

> supplied by Intel. An example of this using 2 cores is given below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supplied by Intel. An example of this using 2 cores on one node is given below: 
```

.. code-block:: bash

    #!/bin/bash
    #SBATCH --nodes=1
    #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=2

    module load impi/2021.7.1-intel-compilers-2022.2.1

>     MACHINEFILE="machinefile.$JOB_ID"

Reviewer: To show/confirm allocated nodes, tasks per node and CPUs per task you could instead just

```
echo "SLURM_JOB_NODELIST=${SLURM_JOB_NODELIST}"
echo "SLURM_NNODES=${SLURM_NNODES}"
echo "SLURM_NTASKS_PER_NODE=${SLURM_NTASKS_PER_NODE-1}"
echo "SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK=${SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK-1}"
``` 

Think this would be cleaner

Author: Agree. Thanks @willfurnass

>     # Show which nodes you have been allocated CPU cores on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Show which node you have been allocated CPU cores on
```

    echo -e "\nShow node core allocation:\n"

    NODELIST=nodelist.$SLURM_JOB_ID
    srun -l bash -c 'hostname' | sort | awk '{print $2}' > $NODELIST
    cat $NODELIST

    echo -e "\nBegin running application:\n"
    srun --export=ALL IMB-MPI1

This will generate output of the form:

.. code-block:: bash

    Show node core allocation:

    node051.pri.stanage.alces.network

>     node051.pri.stanage.alces.network

Reviewer: Does not tally with what requested from Slurm

Author: I think in this case it is printing the node for each core. Will incorporate your suggestion below
